In this quick guide, we'll give you an overview of the various SOLIDWORKS Support and Training options available to you as a TECHNIA customer.


At TECHNIA, we’re delighted to be able to provide our SOLIDWORKS users with a broad range of expert on-demand support and guidance. Our online support is delivered in partnership with SolidProfessor, the official Dassault Systèmes web platform collating thousands of useful FAQ answers, How-to guides, in-depth tutorials, and expert-led self-driven courses.
Our goal is to help you get the most from this powerful and versatile CAD software solution, enabling engineers to harness the full potential of the program in consistently innovative and effective ways. In this blog, we’ll give you a brief rundown of the main types and areas of SOLIDWORKS support we provide.
SOLIDWORKS Features
In addition to two separate courses focused on targeted, in-depth preparation for the Certified SOLIDWORKS Associate (CSWA) and Certified SOLIDWORKS Professional (CSWP) exams, TECHNIA also provides a diverse range of more general user support, tutorials, courses and expert guidance.
SOLIDWORKS 3D CAD
TECHNIA’s suite of SOLIDWORKS 3D CAD support is aimed at driving design innovation and performance through streamlining project workflows and connecting engineer-led projects to the wider design ecosystem within your business.
On a technical level, our full range of SOLIDWORKS 3D CAD support covers the entire spectrum of user expertise, starting with the very basics in our guided Introduction to SOLIDWORKS course. This will teach new users all the key fundamentals they’ll need to get going — from navigating the program interface through to creating your first basic sketches and 2D production drawings, establishing parametric relationships, creating assemblies, and finally producing full 3D models of your designs on the SOLIDWORKS platform.
For more experienced users, we also offer in-depth courses on creating SOLIDWORKS assemblies (see Essentials for Assembly Design), and building parts through the platform (Essentials for Part Design). In addition, we provide specific tutorials aimed at users upgrading to the latest platform releases from older or legacy versions, including a dedicated course on SOLIDWORKS Update Training.
Business Dashboarding
Business Dashboarding — named in reference to a vehicle dashboard, which seeks to display key data in a clear, easy to track way — is all about harnessing the power of information management and presentation.
An effective business dashboard enables users to get the most out of tracking their company’s key metrics and processes in real time, and to communicate and share data or ideas visually inside your organization.
We offer guidance and support for our SOLIDWORKS users in learning to harness the full power of the integrated 3DEXPERIENCE platform for more efficient, agile and insightful business dashboarding across a wide range of projects, products, and industries.
Lifecycle Management
With support from TECHNIA and the 3DEXPERIENCE platform, you can easily upscale your existing SOLIDWORKS PDM system into a complete and robust SOLIDWORKS PLM solution. We’ll help you fully connect engineer-level design processes and networks with your wider business systems and processes, creating a more holistic and powerful suite of software-based solutions for end-to-end Product Lifecycle Management.
TECHNIA expert guidance on all aspects of PLM gives you the power to better organize and manage your data across multiple teams and design phases, offering a more efficient way to supervise your entire company workflow through clear overviews and easy-to-interpret ‘one truth’ data models.
Social Collaboration
Learn more about how to fully optimize and streamline your collaborative process when dealing with engineering-led projects spanning multiple teams, disciplines, departments, and agile working environments. Full SOLIDWORKS integration with the 3DEXPERIENCE platform now means you can work together more effectively in real time with customers and colleagues across the full breadth of your business and sector.
Support on the 3DEXPERIENCE Platform
As a Dassault Systèmes Certified Education Partner, our TECHNIA SOLIDWORKS trainers are qualified and experienced engineers themselves. They’re daily users of both SOLIDWORKS and 3DEXPERIENCE for their own projects and business needs — in short, our training courses have been developed by engineers, for engineers.
As such, we’re ideally placed to provide expert classroom, online and blended course support to our platform users on demand, whether you need access to it for your own engineering projects or a broader overview of business integration, streamlining and development processes.
SOLIDWORKS is fully compatible with the wider 3DEXPERIENCE platform, and we provide full support for engineers looking for expert guidance.
For more information on TECHNIA support, guidance, and tutorials across the SOLIDWORKS and 3DEXPERIENCE platforms, check out our list of currently available SOLIDWORKS course archives. Alternatively, visit our Knowledge Hub to access a full range of webinars, FAQs and support events pages.